Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, President Obama, fellow Americans and people of the world, thank you,” Trump began. “We the citizens of America are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and restore its promise for all of our people. Together we will determine the course of America, and the world, for many, many years to come. We will face challenges, we will confront hardships, but we will get the job done.”

“Every four years we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer of power. We are grateful to President Obama and Michelle Obama. They have been magnificent.”

“Today’s ceremony however has very special meaning, because today we are not merely transferring power from one administration to the other, but from Washington, D.C. and giving it back to you, the people.”

“For too long, a small group in our nation’s Capitol has reaped the rewards of government while the people have born the cost. Washington has flourished, but the people did not share in its wealth. The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country. Their victories have not been your victories. Their triumphs have not been your triumphs. There was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land. That all changes starting right here and right now. This moment is your moment, it belongs to you. It belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America.”

“This is your country.”

“What truly matters is not which party controls our government, but whether out government is controlled by the people. January 20th, 2017 will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again.”

“The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Everyone is listening to you now. You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic movement. The likes of what this country has never seen before. At the center of this movement is a crucial conviction — that the nation exists to serve its people. These are just and reasonable demands of righteous people in a righteous public. But, for too many of our citizens, a different reality exist.”

He touched on education, crimes and drugs “that have stolen too many lives.”

“This American carnage stops right here and stops right now. We are one nation, and their pain is our pain. Their dreams are our dreams. Their success will be our success. We share one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny. The oath of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all Americans.”

Trump then said that the country has enriched other countries before itself and depleted the military.

“The wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed all across the world. But that is the past. And now we are looking only to the future. We, assembled here today, are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city: from this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, it’s going to be only America first. America first. Every decision on trade, on taxes, immigration, foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families. We must protect our borders.”

“Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength. I will never, ever let you down. America will start winning again — winning like never before. We will bring back our jobs, our borders, our wealth, our dreams. We will build new roads, bridges, airports and highways all across the nation. We will get people off of welfare. We will follow two simple rules: buy American and hire American. We will seek friendship and goodwill with the nations of the world, but we do so with the understanding that is the right of all nations to put their own notions first.”

“At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America. Through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other. When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.”

“The Bible tells us how good and pleasant it is when God’s people live together in unity. We must speak our minds openly, debate our minds honestly, but always pursue solidarity. When America is united, America is totally unstoppable. There should be no fear. We are protected, and we will always be protected.”

“Most importantly, we will be protected by God.”

“Finally, we must think big and dream even bigger. In America, we understand that a nation is only living as long as it is striving. We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action. The time for empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action. No challenge can match the heart and fight of America. We will not fail. Our country will thrive and prosper again.”

“No matter if we are black, brown or white, we all bleed the red blood of patriots. We all enjoy the same freedoms and we all salute the same great American flag.”

“To Americans: You will never be ignored again. Your voice, your hopes and your dreams will define our American destiny. Your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way. Together we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And yes, together, we will make America great again.”